(posts): Add Rustup 1.25.0 release announcement post (#1002)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2022-07-11-Rustup-1.25.0.md

---
layout: post
title: "Announcing Rustup 1.25.0"
author: The Rustup Working Group
---

The rustup working group is happy to announce the release of rustup version 1.25.0. [Rustup][install] is the recommended tool to install [Rust][rust], a programming language that is empowering everyone to build reliable and efficient software.

> If you have a previous version of rustup installed, getting rustup 1.25.0 is as easy as closing your IDE and running:

Reviewer: On Windows I can imagine that you wouldn't be able to update while any of the rustup shims is currently running. Closing your IDE reduces the risk of that. It's possible that rustup has some workaround for that Windows limitation though. By the way I did call Vim + rust-analyzer an IDE. As I understand it an IDE is an editor with the extra option to build your program from within the editor and present all the errors in a nice way, which rust-analyzer does by default on every change.

> If you have a previous version of rustup installed, getting rustup 1.25.0 is as easy as closing your IDE and running:

Author: @Mark-Simulacrum We started adding this note a few releases ago when it was evident that people were keeping their IDEs open in Windows, which meant we couldn't replace the proxies because Windows won't let you.  In general it's safer to say "Stop using rust before upgrading rustup" essentially.

> If you have a previous version of rustup installed, getting rustup 1.25.0 is as easy as closing your IDE and running:

Reviewer 2: I think it would be good to add a footnote at least (or something like that) clarifying that this is more of a "in order to upgrade, we need to not have any of the proxies in use", rather than specifically about closing IDEs.

(And I'd guess that in most cases there's no actual need to close IDEs, since they're not persistently running any of rustup's proxies, so we'd be able to replace them in most cases?). But it seems OK to suggest it, I guess.

> If you have a previous version of rustup installed, getting rustup 1.25.0 is as easy as closing your IDE and running:

Author: I have tweaked this to "...is as easy as stopping any programs which may be using Rustup (e.g. closing your IDE) and running:"

> If you have a previous version of rustup installed, getting rustup 1.25.0 is as easy as closing your IDE and running:

Author: rust-analyzer, for example could choose to re-run cargo if you make an edit (even if you don't save it) which ends up using a proxy, so at least for Windows it's much safer to recommend people stop tools before running the update.

> If you have a previous version of rustup installed, getting rustup 1.25.0 is as easy as closing your IDE and running:

Reviewer 2: I'm happy with this edit.

```
rustup self update
```

Rustup will also automatically update itself at the end of a normal toolchain update:

```
rustup update
```

If you don't have it already, you can [get rustup][install] from the appropriate page on our website.

[rust]: https://www.rust-lang.org
[install]: https://rustup.rs

## What's new in rustup 1.25.0

This version of Rustup involves a significant number of internal cleanups, both in terms

> of the Rutup code and its documentation. In addition to a lot of work on the codebase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the Rustup code and its documentation. In addition to a lot of work on the codebase
```

Author: I can't believe I didn't see this myself, thanks Bjorn

itself, due to the length of time since the last release this one has a record number
of contributors and we thank you all for your efforts and time.

One of the biggest changes in 1.25.0 is the new offer on Windows installs to auto-install
the Visual Studio 2022 compilers which should simplify the process of getting started for
people not used to developing on Windows with the MSVC-compatible toolchains.

A second important change for 1.25.0 is a number of PRs focussed around startup performance
for Rustup. While it may not seem all that important to many, Rustup's startup time is
a factor in the time it takes to do builds which involve large numbers of crates on systems

> which do not have large numbers of CPUs. Hopefully the people for whom this is a common

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which do not have large numbers of CPU cores. Hopefully the people for whom this is a common
```

Author: :+1: Added
